---
layout: post
current: post
cover:  assets/images/hack-capital-568971-unsplash.jpg
navigation: True
title: AI vs AI
date: 2018-4-10 10:00:00
tags: software
class: post-template
subclass: 'facebook bot AI drawing time timing'
author: martin
published: false
---

Maybe, you have heard it in news, Facebook is having problems with user privacy and political influencing. Apparently, Facebook campaigns favouring political sides were deployed from afar and influencing voter’s opinions. This behaviour started close to presidential elections in 2016 and has been a conversation starter ever since.

This got Mark Zuckerberg under the government's radar and testifying before Congress. It is not news that internet made the whole world look like one big village, but its something else when this behaviour leads to unconsented data usage.

In the CNN interview shortly after the Cambridge Analytica situation (they accessed information from 50 million Facebook users without their knowledge)
Mark explained how Facebook is fighting untrue information spreading during the election period. Apparently, they are fighting AI with AI.

Mark mentioned, “…we are going to do investigations into every app that had access to a large amount of data…" he also mentioned: “its hard to know what we will find, but we are going to review thousands of apps”.
Don't be fooled, they are not going to investigate every single one of them by hand. They are going to use AI to scan everything instantly. The results and statistical analysis will show patterns, which will later be converted into policies and restrictions for users.

He goes on explaining they have recognised some of the bots that were breaking election integrity and learned to fight them with AI.

That was not the only case where they deployed AI. Apparently, they kept evolving it and successfully recognised fake accounts that were spreading news during elections in Alabama. These were bots, disguised as regular people that pushed used social media like Facebook to influence public opinion.

The AIs he is talking about are algorithms that use statistical techniques to recognise behavioural patterns and evaluate the add or a profile, Mark was talking about. Based on studies, which information induces fear and other emotions, they are able to use flexible campaign messages, mix it with the continent people value and use it pro or against the party.

Artificial intelligence can be used to influence communities, but it's not the technology's fault. Its the people using it. How we use our tools has all to do with who we are and what are we trying to tell the world. This is what they were talking about when it was said future wars will be AI based.

Thanks to theconversation.com For writing a great article: [How AI conquered democracy](http://theconversation.com/how-artificial-intelligence-conquered-democracy-77675)

Thanks to CNN for covering the interview with Mark
[Youtube Interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G6DOhioBfyY)

Thanks to David B. Grinberg  and his article on Medium: [How Mark Zuckerberg Got Schooled in Crisis Communications](https://medium.com/@DBGrinberg/zuckerberg-gets-schooled-in-crisis-communications-5faca0d37ae9)
